# Single Page Application
For the last project in our Web Development course, three others and myself were tasked with creating a single page application about crime in St. Paul. The project pulled data from 3 APIs. The first was called leaflet, which allowed us to render interactive maps on our webpage. This was used to display where crimes were happening in the St. Paul area. The second was the nominatim API, which allows the user to search for locations by name, or retrieve a location's name based on coordinates of latitude and longitute. The final API was the RESTful server we created during our last project, which implemented a number of routes relating to crime data in St. Paul. As this was a group project, we split up the work in order to be the most productive and effective on accomplishing each task. I focused primarily on creating a 'new incident form'. This new incident upload form allowed for users to add crimes to the database via a PUT request. The user would be asked to fill out the details related to the crime, such as the time and location it occurred. Then, by submitting the form, a PUT request was submitted to the server that would upload the new crime information to the database. Then, after submitting the form, if you were to search for the crime in the database, you would be able to find the new information that was recently submitted. It would also be populated into a table that was displayed on the main page, and would be depicted in the interactive map of St. Paul if a valid location was inputted in the form. 
By the end of the project, we had an interactive map of crime in St. Paul, with the ability to add crimes to the database. Some of the other features included implemented UI features that allowed for crime data to be filtered, and color-coded crimes that represented the types of crimes committed. This project helped my teammates and I learn about APIs and on how to use them to update and dynamically change a server and its webpage. To run the program, you need to clone the code and run the program on port 8000. 
